.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

#### 🗹 Requirements

<!--- If you are **not** sure whether or not what you are reporting is actually an issue **or** you have a general question please message in the [Gitter Chat Room](https://gitter.im/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts) -->

<!--- By posting an issue you acknowledge the following: -->

- [ ] A brief but descriptive _title_ of your issue
- [ ] I have searched the [issues](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/issues) for my issue and found nothing related and/or helpful
- [ ] I have read or scanned the [FAQ](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/wiki/FAQ-and-Troubleshooting)
- [ ] I have read or scanned the [Wiki](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/wiki)

<!---
These items you must provide answers to. Make sure to add **all the information needed to understand the issue** so that someone can help. If the info is missing we'll add the 'Needs more information' label and _may_ choose to close the issue until there is enough information.
-->

<!--- ^ ----- Please remove all of the above and this line before posting your issue ----- ^ -->

#### 🎯 Subject of the issue

<!--- Describe issue here -->

#### 🔧 Your Setup

- _Which font are you using (e.g. `Anonymice Powerline Nerd Font Complete.ttf`)?_
- _Which terminal emulator are you using (e.g. `iterm2`, `urxvt`, `gnome`, `konsole`)?_
- _Are you using OS X, Linux or Windows? And which specific version or distribution?_

#### ★ Optional

<!--- Provide screenshots where appropriate -->

Commit message:

reworks and simplifies issue template

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

#### 🗹 Requirements

<!-- ⚠️ !!! 
If you are unsure what you are reporting is an issue or
it's a general question please go to the gitter chat instead: https://gitter.im/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts
⚠️ !!! -->


<!-- ⚠️ !!! Issues not filled out with the template will be closed straight away and will only be responded to once filled properly ⚠️ !!! -->
<!--- By posting an issue you acknowledge the following: -->

- [ ] I have searched the [issues](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/issues) for my issue and found nothing related and/or helpful
- [ ] I have searched the [FAQ](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/wiki/FAQ-and-Troubleshooting) for help
- [ ] I have searched the [Wiki](https://github.com/ryanoasis/vim-devicons/wiki) for help

#### 🎯 Subject of the issue

<!--- Describe issue here -->

#### 🔧 Your Setup

- _Which font are you using (e.g. `Anonymice Powerline Nerd Font Complete.ttf`)?_
- _Which terminal emulator are you using (e.g. `iterm2`, `urxvt`, `gnome`, `konsole`)?_
- _Are you using OS X, Linux or Windows? And which specific version or distribution?_

#### ★ Screenshots (Optional)

<!--- Provide screenshots where appropriate -->
